README.md, before:

Concourse Teams Notification Resource
==================

Sends alerts to Teams.
This resource can now send log output of failing Concourse task(s) to Teams.

Resource Type Configuration
---------------------------

```yml
resource_types:
- name: teams-notification
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: fidelityinternational/concourse-teams-resource
    tag: latest
```

Source Configuration
--------------------

The following fields are required if you want to see erroring Concourse task output in the Teams notification:

- atc_external_url: *Optional* The ATC external URL (if username and password is supplied but not the ATC URL, it will attempt to use the standard in-built ATC_EXTERNAL_URL instead)
- atc_username: *Optional* ATC username is required if atc_external_url is supplied.
- atc_password: *Optional* ATC password is required if atc_external_url is supplied.

Example resource config:

```yml
resources:
- name: teams-alert
  type: teams-notification
  source:
    url: ((teams_webhook))
    atc_username: ...
    atc_password: ...
```

Behaviour
--------

### Sends alert to teams.

Send alert to teams with the configured parameters.

#### Parameters

Required:

- `status`: 'failure' or 'success' for whether resource is called under on_failure or on_success.

Example
-------

```yml
on_failure: # or on_success:
        do:
        - put: teams-alert
          params:
            status: failure #or status: success
```

See our sample [test-pipeline.yml](test-pipeline.yml) for a working example.

Testing
-------

To test this resource, either:

1. Using test-pipeline, add resource, resource type, and on_failure/on_success examples to an existing pipeline, or

2. install a test Concourse with Docker.

Push the sample pipeline to it (remember to update the Teams resource configuration options first, as appropriate):

``` sh
fly login -t local -c http://localhost:8080 -u <local-username> -p <local-password>
fly -t local set-pipeline -p test -c test-pipeline.yml
```

Browse http://localhost:8080 and run the monitoring-test job. One of the tasks in that job is supposed to succeed, and one is supposed to fail. Note the Teams put: on the failing job. This should now trigger, so check Teams for an incoming alert.

Inside the alert message you should find pipeline, job_name, concourse_build_url and output fields which contain the logs from failed or succeeded jobs.
>>>>>>> 9ac5c11... Teams notification resource for concourse

Commit message:

Truncate logs if they exceed 13500 characters
Once the message card exceeds a certain amount of characters, the teams webhook is
unable to curl it without erroring complaining of large payload or with
a 413 error.
We are truncating the error log at 13500 characters (max we could found
we could send) to allow some wiggle room for the other message cards fields,
but are supplying a way to override that value to be included in the pipeline under
the resource type source parameters parameters.
Readme and test pipeline updated to reflect new variable added.

README.md, after:

Concourse Teams Notification Resource
==================

Sends alerts to Teams.
This resource can now send log output of failing Concourse task(s) to Teams.

Resource Type Configuration
---------------------------

```yml
resource_types:
- name: teams-notification
  type: docker-image
  source:
    repository: fidelityinternational/concourse-teams-resource
    tag: latest
```

Source Configuration
--------------------

The following fields are required if you want to see erroring Concourse task output in the Teams notification:

- url: Teams webhook url
- atc_external_url: *Optional* The ATC external URL (if username and password is supplied but not the ATC URL, it will attempt to use the standard in-built ATC_EXTERNAL_URL instead)
- atc_username: *Optional* ATC username is required if atc_external_url is supplied.
- atc_password: *Optional* ATC password is required if atc_external_url is supplied.
- log_max_length: *Optional* Log max length can be configured here. Is necessary as Teams has a character limit on messages received.

Example resource config:

```yml
resources:
- name: teams-alert
  type: teams-notification
  source:
    url: ((teams_webhook))
    atc_external_url: ...
    atc_username: ...
    atc_password: ...
    log_max_length: ...
```

Behaviour
--------

### Sends alert to teams

Send alert to teams with the configured parameters.

#### Parameters

Required:

- `status`: 'failure' or 'success' for whether resource is called under on_failure or on_success.

Example
-------

```yml
on_failure: # or on_success:
        do:
        - put: teams-alert
          params:
            status: failure #or status: success
```

See our sample [test-pipeline.yml](test-pipeline.yml) for a working example.

Testing
-------

To test this resource, either:

1. Using test-pipeline, add resource, resource type, and on_failure/on_success examples to an existing pipeline, or

2. install a test Concourse with Docker.

Push the sample pipeline to it (remember to update the Teams resource configuration options first, as appropriate):

``` sh
fly login -t local -c http://localhost:8080 -u <local-username> -p <local-password>
fly -t local set-pipeline -p test -c test-pipeline.yml
```

Browse http://localhost:8080 and run the monitoring-test job. One of the tasks in that job is supposed to succeed, and one is supposed to fail. Note the Teams put: on the failing job. This should now trigger, so check Teams for an incoming alert.

Inside the alert message you should find pipeline, job_name, concourse_build_url and output fields which contain the logs from failed or succeeded jobs.
>>>>>>> 9ac5c11... Teams notification resource for concourse
